---
layout: post
title: 'Reducers'
description: "What are they?"
date: May 27, 2021
code: true
---

The idea for this started by me not understanding `reduce` in JavaScript. It’s used to [transform an array](https://javascript.info/array-methods), but also there’s functions? And I just don’t know what’s going on. So let’s understand.

- **Need to iterate over an array?** – we can use `forEach`, `for` or `for..of`.
- **Need to iterate and *return* data for each element?** – you use `map`.
- **Need to calculate a single value based on the array?** – use the `reduce` and `reduceRight` methods.


{% highlight javascript %}
// Reduce Syntax
let value = arr.reduce(function(accumulator, item, index, array) {
  // ...
}, [initial]);
{% endhighlight %}

The function is applied to all array elements one after another and “carries on” its result to the next call.

Arguments:
- **accumulator** – is the result of the previous function call, equals initial the first time (if initial is provided).
- **item** – is the current array item.
- **index** – is its position.
- **array** – is the array.

{% highlight javascript %}
// Reduce example
let arr = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5];

let result = arr.reduce((sum, current) => sum + current, 0);

alert(result); // 15
{% endhighlight %}

The first argument stores the combined result of all previous executions. And at the end it becomes the result of `reduce`.

Okay, but the React `useReducer` hook looks like this:

{% highlight javascript %}
// React useReducer hook
const [state, dispatch] = useReducer(reducer, initialArg, initialState);
{% endhighlight %}

(Curious about [React useState and useReducer](https://codesandbox.io/s/inspiring-fog-zcij5?file=/src/styles.css)? I made a simple example where I refactor multiple `useState` functions into a single `useReducer`.)

The `const [] = …` is interesting… what’s that doing again?

{% highlight javascript %}
// Realizing what the array is doing
const [getter, setter] = "what"

console.log(getter) //w
console.log(setter) //h
{% endhighlight %}