---
layout: post
title: 'Care'
description: 'What it means to care.'
date: 'October 14, 2021'
---

Care means **responsibility for prosperity**.

A teacher who cares about others’ learning sees a failing grade as a failure to teach. A teacher who doesn’t care about others’ learning sees a failing grade as a failure to learn.

And [the ones that care make all the difference](https://lukasmurdock.com/late-work/).

A salesperson who cares about those they reach sees a failing sale as a failure to listen well enough. A salesperson who doesn’t care about those they reach sees a failing sale as a failure to speak well enough.

A marketer who cares about those they reach sees a failing campaign as a failure to listen well enough. A marketer who doesn’t care about those they reach sees a failing campaign as a failure to hustle hard enough.

If you care, it means you **hold yourself answerable when those you seek to serve fail to prosper**.

Care means you’re immersed with who you seek to serve.

Care means you’re motivated by the needs of the ones you seek to serve and empathize with them.

Care means you’re not engaging in self-reference and thinking how one might do or act differently in the same circumstance.

Care means you’re committed to the success of the relationship as well as each individual in it.

Care means you’re aware that those you seek to serve have the best intentions and view them positively.

If you care, it means you’re attentive and listen to the experiences of those you seek to serve so you can understand their expressed needs.

We can only get better when we truly begin to see each other. We can only learn and grow when we acknowledge each other. We can only make a difference if we know our existence matters.

Care enough to see the people you seek to serve.

We need you.