---
layout: post
title: 'MGT 302'
description: 'Notes for Operations and Supply Chain Management - MGT 302'
date: 'August 30, 2021'
---

Operations and Supply Chain Processes
1. Planning
2. Sourcing
3. Making
4. Delivering
5. Returning

Goods-Services Continuum
- Pure Goods: Food products, chemicals, mining
- Core Goods: Appliances, automobiles, data storage systems
- Core Services: Hotels, airlines, ISPs
- Pure Services: University, medical, investment

**Efficiency**: doing something at the lowest possible cost.

**Effectiveness**: doing the right things to create the most value for the customer.

**Value**: the attractiveness of a product relative to its price.

Efficiency measures:

- Cash conversion cycle = Days sales outstanding + Days inventory - Payable period

- Receivables turnover = Annual credit sales / Average AR
- Inventory turnover = COGS / Average inventory value
- Asset turnover = Revenue / Total assets

**Just-in-time (JIT)**: Using minimal inventories of parts that arrive exactly when they are needed.

**Total quality control (TQC)**: aggressively eliminates causes of production defects.

**Lean manufacturing**: refers to both JIT and TQC.

**Total quality management (TQM)**: Managing for all dimensions of products and services important to the customer.

**Six Sigma**: describes a quality goal of no more than 3.4 defects out of every million units. Also refers to a quality improvement philosophy and program.

**Mass customization**: producing a unique product exactly to a particular customer’s requirements.

**Triple bottom line**: strategy that includes social, economic, and environmental criteria.

## Chapter 2 

**Sustainability**: meeting current resource needs without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their needs.

**Straddling**: matching a competitor by adding new features, services, or technologies to existing activities.

**Order winners**: One or more specific marketing-oriented dimensions that clearly differentiate a product from competing products.

**Order qualifiers**: Dimensions used to screen a product or service as a candidate for purchase.

## Chapter 3

**Strategic forecasts**: Medium- and long-term forecasts used to make decisions related to strategy and estimating aggregate demand.

**Tactical forecasts**: Short-term forecasts used as input for making day-to-day decisions related to meeting demand.

**Time series analysis**: data relating to past demand is used to predict future demand.

**Moving average**: forecast based on average past demand.

**Weighted moving average**: forecast made with past data where more recent data are given more significance than older data.

## Chapter 4 Strategic Capacity Management

**Strategic capacity planning:** Finding the overall capacity level of capital-intensive resources

**Capacity**: Output a system can achieve over a period of time. (minimize average unit cost)

**Capacity utilization rate**: How close current output is to best operating level (percentage).

**Plant within a plant (PWP)**: An area in a larger facility dedicated to a specific production objective (for example, product group).

## Chapter 5 Projects

**Project**: Series of jobs directed toward a major output that requires significant time to perform.

**Project management**: Planning, directing, and controlling resources (people, equipment, material) to meet the technical, cost, and time constraints of a project.

**Pure project**: A self-contained team works full time on the project.

**Functional project**: Team members are assigned from functional units. Team members remain in their functional units and are not dedicated to the project.

**Matrix project**: Blends functional and pure project structures. Uses people from different functional areas. A dedicated project manager decides what tasks need to be performed and when, but the functional managers control which people to use.

**Work breakdown structure (WBS)**: The hierarchy of project tasks, subtasks, and work packages.

**Earned value management (EVM)**: Evaluates project progress by combining measures of scope, schedule, and cost.

**Critical path**: Activity sequence chain with the longest time to complete

**Immediate predecessor**: Activities blocking completion of another activity.

**Slack time**: Time an activity can be delayed without delaying entire project; (late - early start times).

**Early start schedule**: Lists activities by early start times.

**Late start schedule**: Lists activities by late start times. (may create savings by postponing purchases of material and other costs associated with the project)

**Time–cost models**: Extension of critical path models, considers trade-off between time to complete an activity and cost. Often referred to as “crashing” the project.