---
layout: post
title: 'Rules Of Order'
description: ''
date: 'November 16, 2021'
---

[Roberts Rules of Order](https://robertsrules.com/) is America’s foremost guide to parliamentary procedure. It is used by more professional associations, fraternal organizations, and local governments than any other authority.

[Robert’s Rules of Order Newly Revised In Brief 3rd Edition](https://robertsrules.com/books/newly-revised-3rd-in-brief-edition/) is the essential entry level handbook of meeting rules. You can also find [Robert's Rules of Order Online](http://www.rulesonline.com/).

1. A step-by-step guide to the rules for meeting of your club, civic, and charitable organization.
2. How to run effective meetings.
3. Explanation of duties.


## Why have rules?

When people want to do something as a group, they must first agree on exactly what it is they want to do and how they want to go about it.

Too many people may try to talk at once. Some may not be able to get a word in edgewise. People may wander off the subject—or may even lose sight of what the proper subject is. And if things aren’t handled right, they may come out of the meeting with different understandings of what was or was not agreed to.

Who gets to speak when? How is the meeting to be kept on track? What if discussion tends to go on forever? How is intense disagreement to be handled? How can business best be put through when there is no disagreement? What if a proposal appears to be not yet in shape for a yes-or-no decision? And in a group like a club that has a continuing existence, how is business to be carried over from one meeting to the next if that seems desirable? All these things and many more are potential stumbling blocks when a large number of people are involved.

Parliamentary procedure is a tradition of rules and customs for dealing with these problems.
