---
layout: post
title: '365x21'
description: ''
date: 'December 07, 2021'
---


---

Inspired by [Kallman Parry](https://kallmanparry.com/2021/09/30/the-23-books-i-read-at-23/), here are the 21 most impactful books that I’ve read.

## 1984
This was a required reading for my second-year (Sophomore) English class in high school (~2016-2017). *1984* showed me the power of words and how deep they link to the quality and material of thought—diminishing the quality and material of words directly empowers those in power to stay in power.

## Blink
This was a required reading over the summer for AP Psychology, which I took in my third (Junior) year of high school (~2017-2018). *Blink* shocked me with the awareness that other people engaged in deep and scientific metacognition—and that we (humans) are not as good as we think we are.

## Brave New World
I read this in my third (Junior) year of high school (~2017-2018). *Brave New World* showed me how a hedonistic culture quietly undermines liberty and allows those in power to stay in power.

[This webcomic](https://biblioklept.org/2013/06/08/huxley-vs-orwell-the-webcomic-2/) explains the contrasts between 1984 and Brave new world.

## Surely You’re Joking, Mr. Feynman!
I read this in my fourth (Senior) year of high school (~2019).

## Atomic Habits
I pre-orded this book and read it in my fourth (Senior) year of high school (~2019).

## Influence
I read this in my fourth (Senior) year of high school (~2019).

## Quiet
I read this in my first (Freshman) year of college (~2019).

## Sapiens
When did I read this?

## New Thinking
When did I read this?

## When Breath Becomes Air
When did I read this?

## The Meditations
Read this sometime in 2020.

## This is Marketing
I pre-ordered this book, but held off on reading it during school because I knew I didn’t have the attention to actually read it. Read this sometime in 2020.

## Manifesto for a Moral Revolution
Found by Seth Godin’s [Books for Spring](https://seths.blog/2020/05/books-for-spring/).

## Heroic Leadership
Recommended by [Patrick Bennett](https://www.linkedin.com/in/patrick-a-bennett-edd).

## The Culture Map
I read this in my second (Sophomore) year of college, prompted by a project on culture and the release of No Rules Rules, co-authored by Erin Meyers.

## Map and Territory
Read: December 19, 2020

## How to Actually Change Your Mind
Read: December 27, 2020

## Who Not How
Read: January 05, 2021

## The Coaching Habit
Read: February 04, 2021

## How to Live on 24 Hours a Day
Read: June 04, 2021

## The Machine Stops
Read: June 16, 2021
