---
layout: post
title: 'B.Keys'
description: ''
date: 'October 06, 2022'
---

Hakim Hardy.

B.Keys, Blaque Keys from [2009-2017](https://twitter.com/heistbox/status/957009568290222080?s=20&t=Hkr7qGczGyjY5RrHn2mERA):
- [Twitter](https://twitter.com/heistbox) @heistbox
- [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/heistbox/) @heistbox

[HeistBoX](https://bkeyz.gumroad.com/l/BbZW) (2016-12-12)
1. Far Away (Intro)
2. Sing my Song
3. Deja Vu
4. Killer Instinct (The Wrath of Jago)
5. Family Matters
6. The Letter
7. D.W.I.N.Y
8. Star Search
9. Fools Gold
10. Never Change
11. HeistBox (Outro)

The Master Key Principles: A Featured Presentation (2015)
1. Will Call
2. Find Your Love (Act 1)
3. True Blue
4. N I M B U S
5. Rememberies
6. Let It Run
7. Intermission
8. Find Your Love (Act 2)
9. Faith Interlude
10. Walking Man
11. 1997 Interlude
12. Witness Protection
13. A 2012 Memoir
14. 2015 and Beyond (Encore)

GripTape and TapeDecks Released June 18, 2011, re-released in 2012.

[GripTape and TapeDecks](https://soundcloud.com/jack-flapjack/sets/griptape-and-tapedecks-by-blaque-keyz):
1. Intro
2. Transformation
3. Boom Clap (Prod. by Jon Bellion)
4. Funeral Music
5. Beautifully Human (Prod. by Jon Bellion)
6. Is it worth it?
7. OhVerYorHed (Prod. by Jon Bellion)
8. LoveInARunOnSentence
9. Song for you (Prod. by Jon Bellion)
10. Self-ambition
11. What if?
12. Super Villain Theme Muzik (Prod. by Jon Bellion)
13. Scroo Yoo (Prod. by Jon Bellion)
14. Bonus on re-release in 2012: Predator
15. Bonus on re-release in 2012: Promised Eternity

## Beautifully Human Lyrics

Said oohhhh

Your imperfections… make you… flawless, flawless

Which is why you're beautifully human. Beautifully human (beautifully human)

[Blaque Keyz:]

From your thin waves, brown eyes and long hair. Notice wherever you go getting those long stares. ,I'm there for you I hope you know I earned a stay cause freckles on your nose make it impossible to turn away.

Out of the norm of prolonged your exemption you're nearest to your heart, you never listen to suggestions. It's no question you were sculpted to perfection, molded into a blessing, you're (beautifully human).

I'm not a pilot that flies but every time that I'm with you I feel like head in the skies. You can abduct and take me anywhere a duck could take me anywhere. I wouldn't care cause you're (beautifully human).

And you're mature as he. And your assurance for reassurance I'll surely be, be your security for all your insecurities. As immature you think that you are, you're more mature than me.

Underscoped and carved and into your heart but you arteries have been hardened. Pardon me if I'm off but this art that we call love should be soft as a yard garter. Got a taste for your charm and it's hard enough that I'm starving. Hiding all of your scars for not a person to see. But just the fact that you're not perfect makes you perfect for me. So what is beautiful? I choose the view of you as my example, a sample of what is (beautifully human)

Your heart comes with a price like its on retail, and that's exactly the reason they call you fe-males, huh. And I just hope I can afford you. Not only are you gorgeous, you're (beautifully human).

No competition and a league of your own. And I'm the King. All I'm missing is my Queen and my throne and you seem to fit the description. I'm looking at the past behind me and at the same time seeing what I've been missing.

I take the time to rewind my mind's rolodex. Searching to find the traits inside that match with what lies in you. No hide and seek, but I am trying to find you. And I'll climb to, any mountain top to discover what's inside you, my beautiful human, putting on a show with no Truman or a gent to carry your performance. Torment and low self esteem lay dormant within a being that shines, but she is yet to be seen.

So I use metaphors and rhyme schemes to better your perception of how you see yourself; be yourself. Don't let descriptive lines of casted actresses and hollow souled models define the clarity of what is so called perfection. Make no exception that what you're seeing is not real; inception. Authenticity is something that cannot be learned, bought or implanted. So stand back and let them hate on what you're doing. Cause to them, you're a flaw filled girl but to me, you're beautifully human.
