---
layout: post
title: 'PSY 221'
description: 'Social Psychology'
date: 'August 25, 2022'
---

## Introduction

Social psychology is the scientific study of how the thoughts, feelings, and behaviors of individuals are influenced by the actual, imagined, or implied presence of others.

Textbook: Social Psychology by Gilovish, Keitner, Chen, Nisbett


## Themes and Methods

### [Norman Triplett](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Norman_Triplett)

_[Dynamogenic Factors in Pacemaking Competition](https://www.jstor.org/stable/1412188#metadata_info_tab_contents)_: found people behaved differently when observed. Behavior was more than reflex, stimulus, and response. Bike riders:
- against time: slow
- with pacer: faster
- competition against pacer: fastest

### [Kurt Lewin](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kurt_Lewin)

Founded “social psychology” and argued human behavior is explained by complex dynamic forces acting on an individual—like physical forces shaping the movement of objects.

Competing needs cause tension, and the satisfaction of the need reduces the tension.

```javascript
function behavior(person, environment) {}
```

### Interpretation & subconscious

Perceptions are subject to interpretation. People are lazy.

_Construal_ is the interpretations or inferences about the people, places, and events we confront.

_Social cognition_ is shortcuts for processing information and making decisions.

_Priming_ is environment cues that guide our interpretation.

_Implicit attitudes_ predict behavior above and beyond explicit attitudes.

### Scientific process

- Research question: What brings people together in romantic relationships?
- Theory: An explanation for how and why variables are related to each other.
- Hypothesis: A specific prediction that derives from the theory.
- Research: A process of making observations to test hypotheses.

Variables:
- variable: Any event, situation, behavior, or individual characteristic that can have more than one possible value.
- construct: Abstract ideas that form the basis of a research hypothesis.
- Operational variables: the definition of an abstract concept used by a researcher to measure or manipulate the concept in a research study.

### Operational variables

There are many operational variables for the same concept. For example, stress:
- Stress self-report rating on some scale
- Heartbeats per minute
- Facial tension, frowning/grimacing, fidgeting
- Number of daily events experienced


### Self-report

- Checklist of objective events
- Likert-type scales

Strengths:
- easy to collect
- get perceptions, judgements, motivations, memories,
- variation along a scale

Weaknesses:
- people know what you’re measuring
- participant burden
- inaccurate

### Behavioral design

Strengths:
- direct behavior
- potentially unobtrusive

Weaknesses:
- complicated to collect
- cannot get motivation behind behaviors
- behaviors may be one-time
- need clear definitions of behavior

### Correlational designs
Look at links between two or more variables as they naturally exist in the world.

Example:
- Correlation between self-esteem and talking in class
- Correlation between average income in a county and number of charitable organizations in a county
Links between gender and importance of physical attractiveness

### Correlation does not equal causation

Did x _cause_ y to happen?

### Experimental method

Internal validity: experimental/situational control (random assignment)

External validity: extent to which the results of the study can be generalized to other people and places.

Strengths:
- test causality
- control

Limitations:
- complicated
- internal and external validity tradeoffs

## The Self

Self-concept is the sum total of an individual’s beliefs and attitudes about his or her personal attributes.

Self-schema (Markus, 1977): A cognitive structure derived from past experience that represents a person’s beliefs and feelings about the self.

William James (1980): The social me refers to the parts of self-knowledge that are derived from social relationships

Looking-glass self (Cooley, 1902): People can only learn about the “self” when they receive feedback from other people. The self cannot develop in isolation!


Self-complexity: co-existing archetypes

Working self-concept: the aspect of the self that is active in your mind at any particular time.

We’re not good at introspection:
1. We are constantly mentally processing information, so we often don’t have the capacity to understand our own thoughts, feelings and behavior
2. Multiple other forces, unconscious processes
3. Lies


We are more accurate about our internal traits:
- Emotions
- Cognitive traits (e.g., reflectiveness, pessimism)

Observers more accurate about external traits:
- Social behaviors
- Social traits (e.g., extraversion)

### Gender

Gender:
- Women more interdependent than men
- Socialization: Girls typically raised to focus more on emotions and empathy, playing cooperative games
- Biology: Women in more nurturing, child-rearing roles

Socioeconomic status
- Low SES associated with more interdependence
- Greater sensitivity to social context More interdependence
- Higher SES associated with greater focus on achievement

Festinger’s (1954) Theory of Social Comparison:
- People want to know where they stand
- Prefer objective standards of comparison
- No objective standard available, use a social standard
- Typically compare ourselves to similar others

More commonly compare to people worse than self: downward social comparison

### Self-esteem

Self-esteem: A person’s evaluation of their own self-worth

Sociometer Theory (Leary): Self-esteem is an evolutionary metric for how we’re doing socially:
- System monitors social inclusion, activates social pain if inclusion is low, motivates restoration of inclusion
- Evidence: Self-esteem is particularly sensitive to rejection (Cyberball Task)


Self-Evaluation Maintenance Model (Tesser): Others’ successes can threaten our self-esteem (or not)

When people think success in a given domain is important, they believe the most important traits to succeed are those that they possess (Dunning, Leuenberger, & Sherman, 1995)—Egocentric perceptions of desirable traits

People over-estimate the extent to which their romantic partners conform to their ideal partners (and are happier for it) – Murray, Holmes, & Griffin, 1996


BIRG: Basking In Reflected Glory

CORF: Cutting Off Reflected Failure

People are motivated to self-verify more than they strive for self-enhancement (Swann, 1997)


People with low self-esteem:
- When choosing interaction partners, prefer to interact with people who have negative impressions of them
- When interacting with another person, prefer negative feedback
- When recalling previous interactions, are more likely to remember negative feedback
