---
layout: post
title: 'Travel'
date: 'October 29, 2024'
description: ''
---

## Security

### iPhone

- Back up device
- Ensure [Find My](https://support.apple.com/find-my) is enabled
- Enable [Stolen Device Protection](https://support.apple.com/en-us/120340)
- Disable Control Center and Siri access when device is locked
- Disable Message previews
- Learn how to Temporarily Disable Face ID
- Set up account recovery contacts



---

#### Ensure Find My is enabled

1. Go to Settings > [your name] > Find My > Find my iPhone
2. Turn on Find My iPhone
3. Turn on Find My Network
4. Turn on Send Last Location

#### Enable Stolen Device Protection

1. Go to Settings, then tap Face ID & Passcode.
2. Enter your device passcode.
3. Tap Stolen Device Protection, then turn Stolen Device Protection on.

#### Disable Control Center and Siri access when device is locked

1. Go to Settings, then tap Face ID & Passcode.
2. Scroll down to “allow access when locked”
3. Turn Control Center off
4. Turn Siri off

#### Disable Message previews

1. Settings > Messages > Notifications
2. Scroll down to “Lock Screen Appearance”
3. Show Previews to Never

#### Temporarily Disable Face ID

-  Press and hold the side button and either volume button

Once you do this, your iPhone will require your passcode to
unlock. You can’t use Face ID or Touch ID to unlock until
after you’ve unlocked with your passcode. That means even if
someone confiscates your phone by force, they cannot unlock it
by pointing it at your face or by forcing your finger onto the
Touch ID sensor. Put your iPhone into this mode every time
you’re separated from it.

#### Lock iPhone to one app with Guided Access

1. Go to Settings > Accessibility, then turn on Guided Access
2. Tap Passcode Settings, then tap Set Guided Access Passcode.
3. Enter a passcode, then re-enter it. From here, you can also turn on Face ID or Touch ID as a way to end a Guided Access session.

Start a [Guided Access](https://support.apple.com/en-us/111795) session

1. Open the app that you want.
2. Triple-click the side button
3. If you want parts of your screen to stop responding to touch, use one finger to circle those areas. You can move or resize the circle, or tap the X to remove it.
4. Tap Guided Access, then tap Start.

#### Set up account recovery contacts

1. Go to Settings, then tap [your name].
2. Tap Sign-In & Security, then tap Account Recovery.
3. Tap Add Recovery Contact, then follow the onscreen steps to authenticate with Face ID or Touch ID.

[Account recovery contact](https://support.apple.com/en-us/102641)
