---
layout: post
title: 'How I use AI'
description: 'Personal Field Report'
date: 'May 05, 2026'
---

Effectively all of my sessions, regardless of what I am working on, start with this prompt:

```Read <source(s)>, and think about <thing to do or evaluate>```

My thoughts for better AI outputs goes something like, "How can I give the model better information to reason about what effective <goal> looks like?" or "What is the quickest way to bootstrap someone’s knowledge on how to be effective towards the goal?" or "What sources of information align with how what I want the outputs to be principally guided by?"

I’ll often use URLs as sources but I‘ve curated a selective source directory built around three kinds of files: Map, Principle, and Index files. Each file is prefixed as such `map_`, `principle_`, `index_`.

Map files are generated from [this keyword map prompt](https://parconley.com/keyword-map/) that generates a map of literature keywords. This has been an incredible prompt for self-learning. I think of it as step zero in creating the table of contents for a custom made textbook for whatever I’m directing towards at the moment. I tend to make these prompt end in phrases like this:

```The field of study I am concentrating on is: Effective <Goal>```

Being somewhat situationally specific tends to yield better results for re-using the outputs, so as not to include irrelevant information. But being generic can also yield good results. A few generic examples: Effective Software Testing, Effective Sensemaking

Principle files are a distilled summary of one source, or a small cluster of sources, around a more specific topic. This can be a single map file, or maybe a collection of URLs of articles that talk about a topic or summarize a book. A couple examples: Principles of Software Design (distilled from John Ousterhout's _A Philosophy of Software Design_), Principles of Effective Sensemaking (distilled from _[A Data-Frame Theory of Sensemaking](https://forum.commoncog.com/t/a-data-frame-theory-of-sensemaking/3314)_.

Index files are curated lists of relevant Principle files for a broader practical domain. When I’m dealing with a specific task, I’ll point an agent at the relevant Index file so it has a structured set of principles to reason from.

See also:

- [webref: AI](https://webref.lukasmurdock.com/ai)
